Hello and welcome back to the course
on Deep Learning.
In today's tutorial we're talking about gradient descent.
What we learnt previously was that
in order for a neural network to learn
what needs to happen is back propagation,
and that is when the error, the difference,
or the sum of square differences between 天 and y
is back propagated through the neural network
and the weights are adjusted accordingly.
So we saw that and today we're going to learn
exactly how these weights are adjusted.
So let's have a look.
This is our very simple version of neural network.
A perceptron or a single layer of feed forward
neural network and what we can see here is this
whole processing action where we've got
some input value, then we've got a weight,
and then a activation functions applied,
we get 天 and then we compare it to
the actual value we calculate the cost function.
So how can we minimize the cost function?
What can we do about it?
Well one approach to do it is a brute force approach
where we just take all lots of different
possible weights and look at them
and see which one looks best.
And what we do is, for instance, we'd try out,
let's say for example a thousand weights,
and we try them out, we'd get something like this
for the cost function and this is a chart of
on the y axis you have cost function
on the vertical axis, on the horizontal axis
you have 天 and because you can see the formula is
天 minus y squared, this is what the cost function
would look something like that and basically
you'd find the best one is over here.
So very simple, very intuitive approach.
Why not do this brute force method?
Why not just try out a thousand different
parameters or inputs for weights
and see which one works the best
you'll find the best one that way
Well if you have just one way to optimize
this might work, but as you increase
the number of weights, increase the number
of synapses in your network you have to face
the curse of dimensionality.
And so what is the curse of dimensionality?
The best way to describe this, or explain it,
is to just look at a practical example.
So remember this example we had
when we were talking about how
neural networks actually work?
Where we were building, or running,
a neural network for a appropriate valuation.
So this is what it looked like
when it was trained up already.
Well when it's not trained, before it's trained,
before we know which what are the weights
the actual neural network looks like this.
Right, because we have all these different,
possible synapses there and we still
have to train up the weights.
And here we have a total of 25 weights.
So four times five at the start plus five more
from the hidden layer to the outward layer 25 weights total.
And let's see how we could possibly brute force 25 weights.
It's a very simple neural network right here.
Very simple just one hidden layer,
and how could we brute force our way through
a neural network of this size?
Well let's do some simple mathematical calculations.
We have 25 weights so that means
if we a thousand combinations that
we're going to test out for every weight
the total number of combinations
is a thousand to the power of 25
or 10 to the power of 75 different combinations.
Now let's see how Sunway TaihuLight,
the worlds fastest super computer as of June 2016,
how would it approach this problem?
Right so Sunway TaihuLight looks like this.
It's a whole, huge building pretty much for this one
super computer and it got the Guinness world record
for being the fastest super computer,
right now it is the fastest super computer
in the world and Sunway TaihuLight
can operate at a speed of 93 petaflops.
Flop stand for floating operation per second.
So it can do 93 to the power, times 10 to the power of 15
floating operations per second.
That's how quick it is.
In comparison average computers right now
they do like just over several gigaflops and so on,
so like kind of those ranges,
way less than Sunway TaihuLight.
So Sunway TaihuLight is in the forefront of technology
and let's say hypothetically that it can do one, test one,
combination for our neural network in one flop,
basically in one floating operation.
That is not possible that is not practical
because you need multiple floating operations
to test out a single weight in your neural network
but even let's give it a headstart.
Let's say that it can do that, in an ideal world,
it can do that in one floating operation.
It can do one test per one floating operation.
That means it will still require 10 to the power of 75
divided by 93 times 10 to the power of 15
seconds to run all of those tests,
to brute force through that network.
So that means one, or approximately
10 to the power of 58 seconds and that
is the same as 10 to the power of 50 years.
That is a huge number that is longer
than the universe has existed
and that is definitely not going to...
simply this number is so huge that
it's just definitely not going to work for us
at all in our optimization.
So there we go this is a no no even on
the worlds fastest super computer Sunway TaihuLight.
So we have to come up with a very different approach
how we're going to find the optimal weight.
By the way, this, our neural network is very simple
what about if the neural network
looks like something like this?
Right? Or even greater than that?
Then, yeah. It's just not going to happen at all, ever.
So the method we're going to be looking at
is called gradient descent and you
may have heard of it already.
If not we'll find out what it is right now.
So, there's our cost function and now
we're going to see how we can faster,
come up with a faster way to find the best option.
So, let's say we start somewhere, you gotta start somewhere,
so we start over there and from that point
in the top left what we're going to do
is we're going to look at the angle
of our cost function at that point.
So we're just going to, basically that's why
it's called gradient because you have to differentiate,
we're not going to look at the mathematical equations.
We will provide some tips on additional reading
at the end of the next lecture.
But basically you just need to differentiate,
find out what the slope is in that specific point
and find out if the slope is positive or negative.
If the slope is negative like in this case,
means that you're going downhill.
So to the right is downhill to the left is uphill.
And from there it means you need to go right
basically you need to go downhill
and that's what we're going to do.
Vroom. Takes a step right.
The ball rolls down.
Again same thing you calculate the slope
this time the slope is positive
meaning right is uphill left is downhill
and you need to go left.
And you roll the ball down.
And again you calculate the slope
and you roll the ball right.
There we go so that's how you find, in simple terms,
that's how you find the best weights,
the best situation that minimizes your cost function.
Of course it's not going to be, like a ball rolling
is going to be a very zig zaggy type of approach
but it's easier to remember a kind of...
It's more fun to look at it as a ball rolling
but in reality yes you just,
it is going to be like a step by step approach
so it's going to be a zig zaggy type of method.
Yeah and also there's loads of other elements to it.
There's things like, for instance,
why does it go down?
Why does it not go way over the lines?
So it could have jumped out of this,
gone upwards instead of downwards
and things like that so there are parameters
that you can tweak and again we will mention
where you can find out more on that
And plus we'll have this in the practical application.
But in the simplest intuitive approach
this is what is happening, we are getting to the bottom
Why just understanding which way we need to go
instead of brute forcing through
thousands and thousands and millions and billions
and quadrillions of combinations,
we can just simply every time have a look
at where is, which way is is sloping?
So right, like you imagine you're
standing on a hill, which way
does it feel that it's going downwards?
And whichever way it's going downwards
you just keep walking that way
you like take 50 steps that way
and then you assess again.
Okay, which way is it going downward?
This way. Okay.
Now take 50 steps, or less take 40 steps, that way
so it gets less and less and less as you get closer.
So here's an example of gradient descent
applied in a two dimensional space.
So that was a one dimensional example.
Here we have a two dimensional space for a gradient descent.
As you can see it's getting closer to the minimum.
And it's also called gradient descent because
you're descending into the minimum of the cost function.
And, finally, here's a gradient descent
applied in three dimensions,
this is what it looks like if you
project it onto two dimensions.
You can see it zig zagging its way into the minimum.
So there you go that was gradient descent.
In the next tutorial we will talk about
stochastic gradient descent,
will be a continuation of this tutorial
and I look forward to seeing you there.
Until next time, enjoy Deep Learning.